feat(RHINENG-11187) Add export-service components to the dev.yml file (#1817)
RedHatInsights/insights-host-inventory: README.md

brew install postgresql
```

> ### Configuration env vars

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure env vars
```

To run *HBI* locally, first you will have to create an `.env.sample` file with the following content.

```bash
cat > ${PWD}/.env.sample<<EOF
# RUNNNING HBI Locally
PROMETHEUS_MULTIPROC_DIR=/tmp
prometheus_multiproc_dir=/tmp

BYPASS_RBAC="true"
BYPASS_UNLEASH="true"
BYPASS_XJOIN="true"

# If you want to use the legacy prefix, otherwise don't set PATH_PREFIX
# PATH_PREFIX="/r/insights/platform"

APP_NAME="inventory"
INVENTORY_DB_USER="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_PASS="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_HOST="localhost"
INVENTORY_DB_NAME="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_POOL_TIMEOUT="5"
INVENTORY_DB_POOL_SIZE="5"
INVENTORY_DB_SSL_MODE=""
INVENTORY_DB_SSL_CERT=""
UNLEASH_TOKEN='*:*.dbffffc83b1f92eeaf133a7eb878d4c58231acc159b5e1478ce53cfc'
UNLEASH_CACHE_DIR=./.unleash
UNLEASH_URL="http://localhost:4242/api"

# for export service
KAFKA_EXPORT_SERVICE_TOPIC="platform.export.requests"
EOF
```

> Make all the appropriate changes as needed, copy the `.env.sample` to `.env`, and source it.

Reviewer: What's the intent with copying and renaming, rather than just creating a file named `.env` with all the values? If the user wants to restore the default values, they're here in the README

Author: To avoid overwriting an existing `.env` file, for example. I am juggling with one for local dev and another one working with ephemeral ...

Reviewer: OK. Personally I'd just list the contents of the file and allow the user to organize their files as needed, but I'm OK with this as well.

brew install postgresql
```

### Configuration env vars
To run *HBI* locally, first you will have to create an `.env` file with the following content.

```bash

> cat > $HOME/.env<<EOF

Reviewer 2: Although this part has been moved and updated, nevertheless, I'd recommend to move this to an `.env.sample` and put an instruction to copy it `cp .env.sample .env`. Or even better, have a make target that would generate it with random tokens.

# RUNNNING HBI Locally
PROMETHEUS_MULTIPROC_DIR=/tmp
prometheus_multiproc_dir=/tmp

BYPASS_RBAC="true"
BYPASS_UNLEASH="true"
BYPASS_XJOIN="true"

# If you want to use the legacy prefix, otherwise don't set PATH_PREFIX
# PATH_PREFIX="/r/insights/platform"

APP_NAME="inventory"
INVENTORY_DB_USER="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_PASS="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_HOST="localhost"
INVENTORY_DB_NAME="insights"
INVENTORY_DB_POOL_TIMEOUT="5"
INVENTORY_DB_POOL_SIZE="5"
INVENTORY_DB_SSL_MODE=""
INVENTORY_DB_SSL_CERT=""
UNLEASH_TOKEN='*:*.dbffffc83b1f92eeaf133a7eb878d4c58231acc159b5e1478ce53cfc'
UNLEASH_CACHE_DIR=./.unleash
UNLEASH_URL="http://localhost:4242/api"

# for export service
KAFKA_EXPORT_SERVICE_TOPIC="platform.export.requests"
EOF
```

To force an ssl connection to the db set `INVENTORY_DB_SSL_MODE` to `"verify-full"`
and provide the path to the certificate you'd like to use.

### Install dependencies

> This project uses `pipenv` fs to manage the development and deployment environments.

Reviewer 2: "fs", as in File System?

Author: An Emacs residual keyboard shortcut ... SPC + f + s 🤦‍♂️

Creating a virtualenv for this project...
Pipfile: $HOME/Projects/Code/Insights/github/insights-host-inventory/Pipfile
Using $HOME/.pyenv/versions/3.9.18/bin/python3 (3.9.18) to create virtualenv...
⠹ Creating virtual environment...created virtual environment CPython3.9.18.final.0-64 in 237ms
  creator CPython3Posix(dest=$HOME/.virtualenvs/insights-host-inventory-Mvrq8vVE, clear=False, no_vcs_ignore=False, global=False)
  seeder FromAppData(download=False, pip=bundle, setuptools=bundle, wheel=bundle, via=copy, app_data_dir=$HOME/Library/Application Support/virtualenv)
    added seed packages: pip==24.0, setuptools==70.0.0, wheel==0.43.0
  activators BashActivator,CShellActivator,FishActivator,NushellActivator,PowerShellActivator,PythonActivator

✔ Successfully created virtual environment!
Virtualenv location: $HOME/.virtualenvs/insights-host-inventory-Mvrq8vVE
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
To activate this project's virtualenv, run pipenv shell.
Alternatively, run a command inside the virtualenv with pipenv run.
Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (5dbb11)...

> Installing dependencies from Pipfile.lock (5dbb11)...

Reviewer 2: The output is not need. It makes more noise in the doc.

maintain the db tables.

The database migration scripts determine the DB location, username,
password and db name from the `INVENTORY_DB_HOST`, `INVENTORY_DB_USER`,
`INVENTORY_DB_PASS` and `INVENTORY_DB_NAME` environment variables present in
the `.env` file.

```bash
make upgrade_db
```

By default the database container will use a bit of local storage so that data

> you enter will be persistent across multiple starts of the container. If you

Reviewer: As far as I can tell, both are valid and understandable. Personally, I'd go with:
```suggestion
you enter will persist across multiple starts of the container. If you
```

maintain the db tables.

The database migration scripts determine the DB location, username,
password and db name from the `INVENTORY_DB_HOST`, `INVENTORY_DB_USER`,
`INVENTORY_DB_PASS` and `INVENTORY_DB_NAME` environment variables present in
the `.env` file.

```bash
make upgrade_db
```

By default the database container will use a bit of local storage so that data
you enter will be persistent across multiple starts of the container. If you
want to destroy that data do the following:

```bash
docker-compose -f dev.yml down
```

### Create hosts data in the Database

First, start the `mq` service by running the following command in a new terminal:

```bash

> cd insights-host-inventory

Reviewer 2: The project root might be implied.

pipenv shell
make run_inv_mq_service
```

Open a new terminal, and export the numbers of hosts you would like to create:

```bash
cd insights-host-inventory
pipenv shell

> export NUM_HOSTS=800

Reviewer 2: Why not pass this directly to `make run_inv_mq_service_test_producer`? Is `NUM_HOSTS` used by other scripts?
```
NUM_HOSTS=800 make run_inv_mq_service_test_producer
```
